v8.0.0-beta.2 (#17155)
mui/mui-x: CHANGELOG.md

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.
See [Conventional Commits](https://conventionalcommits.org) for commit guidelines.

## 8.0.0-beta.2

_Mar 27, 2025_

We'd like to offer a big thanks to the 12 contributors who made this release possible. Here are some highlights ✨:

> - 🐞 Bugfixes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- 🔍 Update the Data Grid quick filter to be collapsed when not in use
- 🐞 Bugfixes
```

Special thanks go out to the community members for their valuable contributions:
@lhilgert9.
Following are all team members who have contributed to this release:
@alexfauquette, @arminmeh, @flaviendelangle, @hasdfa, @JCQuintas, @KenanYusuf, @LukasTy, @MBilalShafi, @michelengelen, @mnajdova, @romgrk.

<!--/ HIGHLIGHT_ABOVE_SEPARATOR /-->

### Data Grid

#### `@mui/x-data-grid@8.0.0-beta.2`

- [DataGrid] Fix error caused by trying to render rows that are not in the state anymore (#17057) @arminmeh
- [DataGrid] Refactor: remove more material (#16922) @romgrk

> - [DataGrid] Remove unwanted attributes from `QuickFilter` component (#17126) @KenanYusuf

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

I would remove this line, it fixes some accidental unreleased changes merged in the PR mentioned below (#16862)

All notable changes to this project will be documented in this file.
See [Conventional Commits](https://conventionalcommits.org) for commit guidelines.

## 8.0.0-beta.2

_Mar 27, 2025_

We'd like to offer a big thanks to the 12 contributors who made this release possible. Here are some highlights ✨:

- 🔍 Update the Data Grid quick filter to be collapsed when not in use
- 🐞 Bugfixes

Special thanks go out to the community members for their valuable contributions:
@lhilgert9.
Following are all team members who have contributed to this release:
@alexfauquette, @arminmeh, @flaviendelangle, @hasdfa, @JCQuintas, @KenanYusuf, @LukasTy, @MBilalShafi, @michelengelen, @mnajdova, @romgrk.

<!--/ HIGHLIGHT_ABOVE_SEPARATOR /-->

### Data Grid

#### `@mui/x-data-grid@8.0.0-beta.2`

- [DataGrid] Fix error caused by trying to render rows that are not in the state anymore (#17057) @arminmeh
- [DataGrid] Refactor: remove more material (#16922) @romgrk

> - [DataGrid] Update Quick Filter component to be expandable (#16862) @KenanYusuf

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [DataGrid] Update Quick Filter component to be expandable (#16862) @KenanYusuf
- [DataGrid] Fix crash when used with `@mui/styled-engine-sc` (#17154) @KenanYusuf 
```

#### `@mui/x-data-grid-pro@8.0.0-beta.2` [![pro](https://mui.com/r/x-pro-svg)](https://mui.com/r/x-pro-svg-link 'Pro plan')

Same changes as in `@mui/x-data-grid@8.0.0-beta.2`, plus:

- [DataGridPro] Data source: Allow expanding groups with unknown children (#17144) @MBilalShafi

#### `@mui/x-data-grid-premium@8.0.0-beta.2` [![premium](https://mui.com/r/x-premium-svg)](https://mui.com/r/x-premium-svg-link 'Premium plan')

Same changes as in `@mui/x-data-grid-pro@8.0.0-beta.2`.

### Date and Time Pickers

#### `@mui/x-date-pickers@8.0.0-beta.2`

- [fields] Extract the props of each field slot into a standalone hook that the Base UI implementation can re-use (#17114) @flaviendelangle

> - [pickers] Fix visual regression in `DateRangeCalendar`'s day (#17148) @flaviendelangle

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [pickers] Fix visual regression in Date Range Calendar's day (#17148) @flaviendelangle
```

### Tree View

#### `@mui/x-tree-view@8.0.0-beta.2`

Internal changes.

#### `@mui/x-tree-view-pro@8.0.0-beta.2` [![pro](https://mui.com/r/x-pro-svg)](https://mui.com/r/x-pro-svg-link 'Pro plan')

Same changes as in `@mui/x-tree-view@8.0.0-beta.2`.

### `@mui/x-codemod@8.0.0-beta.1`

- [codemod] Add `showToolbar` prop when using toolbar component (#17124) @MBilalShafi
- [codemod] Add a few Data Grid codemods (#17121) @MBilalShafi

### Docs

- [docs] Fix example import for `ExportExcel` component (#17110) @KenanYusuf

### Core

- [code-infra] Remove `@mui/styles` dependency & patches (#17071) @mnajdova
- [code-infra] Add more tests to slow screenshot tests (#17075) @JCQuintas
- [code-infra] Fix pickers codecov (#17120) @JCQuintas
- [code-infra] Move `isDeepEqual` to @mui/x-internals (#17129) @JCQuintas
- [code-infra] Remove `test_regressions` step from React 18 pipeline (#17108) @LukasTy
- [code-infra] Update more data-grid tests for vitest (#17146) @JCQuintas
- [code-infra] Update some data-grid tests for vitest (#17078) @JCQuintas
- [code-infra] Update some data-grid tests for vitest (#17104) @JCQuintas
- [code-infra] Update some date-pickers tests for vitest (#17083) @JCQuintas

> - [infra] Update issue-status-label-handler.yml @michelengelen

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [infra] Update `issue-status-label-handler.yml` @michelengelen
```

@lhilgert9.
Following are all team members who have contributed to this release:
@alexfauquette, @arminmeh, @flaviendelangle, @hasdfa, @JCQuintas, @KenanYusuf, @LukasTy, @MBilalShafi, @michelengelen, @mnajdova, @romgrk.

<!--/ HIGHLIGHT_ABOVE_SEPARATOR /-->

### Data Grid

#### `@mui/x-data-grid@8.0.0-beta.2`

- [DataGrid] Fix error caused by trying to render rows that are not in the state anymore (#17057) @arminmeh
- [DataGrid] Refactor: remove more material (#16922) @romgrk
- [DataGrid] Update Quick Filter component to be expandable (#16862) @KenanYusuf
- [DataGrid] Fix crash when used with `@mui/styled-engine-sc` (#17154) @KenanYusuf

#### `@mui/x-data-grid-pro@8.0.0-beta.2` [![pro](https://mui.com/r/x-pro-svg)](https://mui.com/r/x-pro-svg-link 'Pro plan')

Same changes as in `@mui/x-data-grid@8.0.0-beta.2`, plus:

- [DataGridPro] Data source: Allow expanding groups with unknown children (#17144) @MBilalShafi

#### `@mui/x-data-grid-premium@8.0.0-beta.2` [![premium](https://mui.com/r/x-premium-svg)](https://mui.com/r/x-premium-svg-link 'Premium plan')

Same changes as in `@mui/x-data-grid-pro@8.0.0-beta.2`.

### Date and Time Pickers

#### `@mui/x-date-pickers@8.0.0-beta.2`

> - [fields] Extract the props of each field slot into a standalone hook that the Base UI implementation can re-use (#17114) @flaviendelangle

Reviewer 3: How about we avoid mentioning product names that we are not sure about? 🤔 🙈 
```suggestion
- [fields] Extract the props of each field slot into a standalone hook for easier re-use (#17114) @flaviendelangle
```

Reviewer 2: No strong opinion here

- [pickers] Fix visual regression in Date Range Calendar's day (#17148) @flaviendelangle
- [pickers] Remove all code duplication to apply default values to validation props (#17038) @flaviendelangle

#### `@mui/x-date-pickers-pro@8.0.0-beta.2` [![pro](https://mui.com/r/x-pro-svg)](https://mui.com/r/x-pro-svg-link 'Pro plan')

Same changes as in `@mui/x-date-pickers@8.0.0-beta.2`.

### Charts

#### `@mui/x-charts@8.0.0-beta.2`

- [charts] Add pie benchmark (#17115) @JCQuintas
- [charts] Fix CSS vars support for dark theme (#17106) @alexfauquette
- [charts] Fix radar hover (#17134) @alexfauquette
- [charts] Move axis interaction to selectors (#17039) @alexfauquette

> - [charts] Pie benchmark fix (#17125) @JCQuintas

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- [charts] Fix Pie benchmark (#17125) @JCQuintas
```

#### `@mui/x-charts@8.0.0-beta.2`

> - [charts] Memoize axes and series with default (#17156)

Reviewer 2: We are missing the name of the dev (and alphabetical order would be awesome but I'm nitpicking here)
